---
title: "Recursive approximation of complex behaviours with IoT-data imperfections"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-10-01-jas-paper
excerpt: 'This paper presents an approach to recursively estimate the simplest linear model that approximates the time-varying local behaviors from imperfect (noisy and incomplete) measurements in the internet of things (IoT) based distributed decision-making problems.'
date: 2020-10-01
venue: 'EEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9080611'
citation: 'Bekiroglu, K., Srinivasan, S., Png, E., Su, R., & Lagoa, C. (2020). Recursive approximation of complex behaviours with IoT-data imperfections. IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica, 7(3), 656-667.'
---
This paper presents an approach to recursively estimate the simplest linear model that approximates the time-varying local behaviors from imperfect (noisy and incomplete) measurements in the internet of things (IoT) based distributed decision-making problems. We first show that the problem of finding the lowest order model for a multi-input single-output system is a cardinality optimization problem, known to be NP-hard. To solve the problem a simpler approach is proposed which uses the recently developed atomic norm concept and the modified Frank-Wolfe (mFW) algorithm is introduced. Further, the paper computes the minimum data-rate required for computing the models with imperfect measurements. The proposed approach is illustrated on a building heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) control system that aims at optimizing energy consumption in commercial buildings using IoT devices in a distributed manner. The HVAC control application requires recursive thermal dynamical model updates due to frequently changing conditions and non-linear dynamics. We show that the method proposed in this paper can approximate such complex dynamics on single-board computers interfaced to sensors using unreliable communication channels. Real-time experiments on HVAC systems and simulation studies are used to illustrate the proposed method.

[Download paper here](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9080611)
